doc(release) Release notes oss 24.10 (#4550)
centreon/centreon-documentation: versioned_docs/version-24.10/releases/centreon-os.mdx

## Centreon Web

### 24.10.9

Release date: `August 4, 2025`

> <details open>
>   <summary>Enhancements</summary>
> 
> - [Authentication] Improved SAML configuration by adding a "Requested Authentication Context" parameter.
> - [Configuration] Added Tokens management in Agent configuration.
> - [Configuration] Host name is now displayed in Agent configuration (poller-initiated connection)
> - [Dashboards] Added new widget "Business Activity Status Timeline" that displays the distribution of current statuses on a BA, as a chronological timeline for a given time period.
> - [Dashboards] Metrics are now clearly identifiable in the Metrics Graph widget, thanks to the addition of service and/or host related names, when needed.
> - [Dashboards][Resource Table widget] Added FQDN, Alias, Parent Alias and Monitoring Server columns.
> - [Metaservices] Fixed several issues occuring when using MySQL 8.
> - [Monitoring] A new, modern version of the BA monitoring page is now available.
> - [Resource Status] Added the possibility to export in CSV format the current data being displayed.
> - [Resource Status] It is now possible to avoid performance issues when using free text search, by using a new option named "Free text search behavior" in the Administration > Parameters > Centreon UI menu.
> 
> </details>
> 
> <details open>
>   <summary>Bug fixes</summary>
> 
> - [Administration] Fixed an issue on user group and template where importing LDAP with non admin user.
> - [API Tokens] Fixed an issue in creation form with custom duration.
> - [API] Fixed an issue on service template listing endpoint.
> - [CLAPI] Fixed an issue where warning was returned when using getmacro.
> - [Configuration] Fixed a display issue on command information popin.
> - [Configuration] Fixed an issue where adding/editing a service failed when a command was configured on a template that was not the direct parent of the service.
> - [Configuration] Fixed an issue where mass Change on Linked Service Templates cause a 500 Internal Server Error.
> - [Dashboards] Fixed auto-adjustment of curves in graphics.
> - [Dashboards] Optimized threshold display in the Single Metric widget.
> - [Language] Fixed issue preventing modern pages from being translated when choosing "detection by browser" as a language.
> - [Meta] Fixed several issues occuring when using MySQL 8.
> - [Resource Status] Default values for monitoring options are now also applied to non-admins.
> - [Resource Status] Fixed issue preventing the selection of multiple resources when using advanced filters.
> - [Resource Status] Optimized legend rendering in graphs.
> - [Resource Status] The correct pictogram is now used when displaying a parent resource in downtime.
> - [Upgrade] Fixed migration script for version 23.10.8.
> 
> </details>
> 
> <details open>
>   <summary>Security fixes</summary>
> 
> - [Security] Fixed SQLi vulnerabilities on Configuration > Users > Contact templates.
> - [Security] Fixed vulnerability on notification escalation pages.
> - [Security] Fixed XSS in host listing.
> - [Vulnerability] Added ACL check when exporting configuration.
> - [Vulnerability] Fixed issue allowing a non admin user to logout another user.
> - [Vulnerability] Fixed SQL injection in Monitoring > Event Logs page.
> - [Vulnerability] Fixed SQL injection on meta-service configuration page.
> - [Vulnerability] SQL injections are now prevented on Host Category configuration page.
> - [Vulnerability] SQL injections are now prevented on the Host dependency field, in the Host configuration page.
> 
> </details>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<details open>
  <summary>Enhancements</summary>

- [Authentication] Improved SAML configuration by adding a "Requested Authentication Context" parameter.
- [Configuration] Added Tokens management in Agent configuration.
- [Configuration] Host name is now displayed in Agent configuration (poller-initiated connection)
- [Dashboards] Added new widget "Business Activity Status Timeline" that displays the distribution of current statuses on a BA, as a chronological timeline for a given time period.
- [Dashboards] Metrics are now clearly identifiable in the Metrics Graph widget, thanks to the addition of service and/or host related names, when needed.
- [Dashboards][Resource Table widget] Added FQDN, Alias, Parent Alias and Monitoring Server columns.
- [Metaservices] Fixed several issues occuring when using MySQL 8.
- [Monitoring] A new, modern version of the BA monitoring page is now available.
- [Resource Status] Added the possibility to export in CSV format the current data being displayed.
- [Resource Status] It is now possible to avoid performance issues when using free text search, by using a new option named "Free text search behavior" in the Administration > Parameters > Centreon UI menu.

</details>

<details open>
  <summary>Bug fixes</summary>

- [Administration] Fixed an issue on user groups and templates that occurred when importing non-admin users from LDAP.
- [API Tokens] Fixed an issue where an invalid expiration date was sent when creating a token with a custom duration.
- [API] Fixed a 500 error affecting the service template listing endpoint.
- [CLAPI] Fixed an issue where a warning was returned when using getmacro.
- [Configuration] Fixed a display issue affecting some command tooltips.
- [Configuration] Fixed an issue where adding/editing a service failed when a command was configured on a template that was not the direct parent of the service.
- [Configuration] Fixed an issue where mass change on Linked Service Templates caused a 500 internal server error.
- [Dashboards] Fixed auto-adjustment of curves in graphics.
- [Dashboards] Optimized threshold display in the Single Metric widget.
- [Language] Fixed issue preventing modern pages from being translated when choosing "detection by browser" as a language.
- [Metaservices] Fixed several issues occuring when using MySQL 8.
- [Resource Status] Default values for monitoring options are now also applied to non-admins.
- [Resource Status] Fixed an issue preventing the selection of multiple resources when using advanced filters.
- [Resource Status] Optimized legend rendering in graphs.
- [Resource Status] The correct pictogram is now used when displaying a parent resource in downtime.
- [Upgrade] Fixed migration script for version 23.10.8.

</details>

<details open>
  <summary>Security fixes</summary>

- [Vulnerability] Fixed vulnerabilities on several pages.
- [Vulnerability] Added ACL check when exporting configuration.
- [Vulnerability] Fixed an issue allowing a non admin user to logout another user.
- [Vulnerability] Fixed SQL injection in Monitoring > Event Logs page.

</details>
```

## Centreon DSM

### 24.10.2

Release date: `August 4, 2025`

<details>
  <summary>Bug fixes</summary>

> - [Metaservices] Fixed several issues occuring when using MySQL 8.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Metaservices] Fixed several issues occurring when using MySQL 8.
```
